host_permissions manifest key documentation (#15183)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/manifest.json/host_permissions/index.md

---

> title: host_permissions

Author: Unfortunately I don't get a proper preview, so couldn't comment but this line looks OK

> title: host_permissions

Reviewer: I was just looking at the previews created by the bot https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/15183#issuecomment-1104656109

> title: host_permissions

Author: See what you mean, checked and there's no hidden characters there.

slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/host_permissions
tags:
  - Add-ons
  - Extensions
  - Permissions
  - host_permissions
  - Reference
  - WebExtensions
  - manifest.json
browser-compat: webextensions.manifest.host_permissions
---
{{AddonSidebar}}

<table class="fullwidth-table standard-table">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Type</th>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Mandatory</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Manifest version</th>
      <td>3 or higher</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Example</th>
      <td>
        <pre class="brush: json;">
"host_permissions": [
  "*://developer.mozilla.org/*",
  "*://*/*"
]</pre
        >
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Use the `host_permissions` key to request access for the APIs in your extension that read or modify host data, such as {{WebExtAPIRef("cookies")}}, {{WebExtAPIRef("webRequest")}}, and {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs")}}. This key is an array of strings, and each string is a request for a permission.

> If you request permissions using this key, the browser may inform the user at install time that the extension is requesting access to this host data, and ask them to confirm that they are happy to grant these privileges. The browser may also allow the user to inspect an extension's host permissions after installation. As the request to grant host permissions may impact users' willingness to install your extension, requesting host permissions is worth careful consideration. For example, you want to avoid requesting unnecessary host permissions and may want to provide information about why you are requesting host permissions in your extension's store description. The article [Request the right permissions](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/request-the-right-permissions/) provides more information on the issues you should consider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you request permissions using this key, the browser may (or may not) prompt the user at install time to grant extension access to this host data. In either case, the browser will provide the user with ability to control extension's host permissions after installation, to grant or revoke them at any time as needed.

As the request to grant host permissions may impact users' willingness to install your extension, requesting host permissions is worth careful consideration. For example, you want to avoid requesting unnecessary host permissions and may want to provide information about why you are requesting host permissions in your extension's store description. The article [Request the right permissions](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/request-the-right-permissions/) provides more information on the issues you should consider.
```

For information on how to test and preview permission requests, see [Test permission requests](https://extensionworkshop.com/documentation/develop/test-permission-requests/) on the Extension Workshop site.

Host permissions are specified as [match patterns](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Match_patterns), and each pattern identifies a group of URLs for which the extension is requesting extra privileges. For example, a host permission could be `"*://developer.mozilla.org/*"`.

The extra privileges include:

> - [XMLHttpRequest](/en-US/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest) and [fetch](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) access to those origins without cross-origin restrictions (even for requests made from content scripts)

Author: Done

- the ability to read tab-specific metadata without the "tabs" permission, such as the `url`, `title`, and `favIconUrl` properties of {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs.Tab")}} objects
- the ability to inject scripts programmatically (using {{webextAPIref("tabs/executeScript", "tabs.executeScript()")}}) into pages served from those origins
- the ability to receive events from the {{webextAPIref("webrequest")}} API for these hosts
- the ability to access cookies for that host using the {{webextAPIref("cookies")}} API, as long as the `"cookies"` API permission is also included.

> - bypassing tracking protection for extension pages where a host is specified as a full domain or with wildcards. Content scripts, however, can only bypass tracking protection for hosts specified with a full domain.

Reviewer: I think the content scripts part here might be also incorrect for mv3, but I'll need to check.

Reviewer: Yep confirmed, this bit about content scripts can be removed as well.

Author: Thanks, removed
